.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_REGISTER 7 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_announce, psys_register - Add a package to the system package
database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "int psys_announce(psys_pkg_t " pkg ", psys_err_t *" err );
.br
.BI "int psys_register(psys_pkg_t " pkg ", psys_err_t *" err );
.br
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_announce ()
reports to the system package manager that the calling program attempts
to install the package specified by the package object
.IR pkg .
If the package manager objects to the attempt due to anticipated conflicts
with the current package database or file system, or if
.BR psys_announce ()
encounters an error during execution, -1 is returned, and
.I *err
is set to an error object with more information about the abnormal return.
Otherwise,
.BR psys_announce ()
returns 0.
.PP
If
.BR psys_announce ()
returns abnormally, the calling program shall not attempt the installation
of the announced package.
On normal return, the package may be installed into the announced package's
data directory (see
.BR psysmeta(7)).
.PP
.BR psys_register ()
requests the addition of the package specified by the package object
.I pkg
to the system package database.
On error,
.BR psys_register ()
returns -1 and sets
.I *err
like
.BR psys_announce ().
If the package has been successfully added to the database, 0 is returned.
.PP
.I pkg
must not be NULL when calling
.BR psys_announce ()
or
.BR psys_register ().
Otherwise, the program will be aborted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 is returned if
.BR psys_announce ()
or
.BR psys_register ()
returns normally.
On abnormal return (when an error is reported), -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EACCESS
The calling process is not permitted to access the package management
system.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EARCH
The architecture specified for the package is not compatible with the
architecture of the installation target machine, or the architecture
is not known to the package manager.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ECONFLICT
The package conflicts with the current file system. Usually, this means
that the package's data directory already exists (and is not empty).
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EEXIST
A package with the same identity (Vendor and Name metadata value) is
already part of the system package database.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EINTERNAL
An internal error occurred.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_LSBVER
The system does not support the version of the LSB standard required by
the package.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ENOMEM
An out-of-memory error occurred.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ENOTIMPL
The system does not implement the function.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following program installs a simple "Hello World" program and adds it
to the system package database.
.nf

#include <errno.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>

#include <psys.h>

#define HELLOWORLD_SCRIPT \\
    "#!/bin/sh \\n" \\
    "echo \\"Hello World!\\""

static int install(void)
{
    FILE *f;

    if (mkdir("/opt/example.com", 0755) && errno != EEXIST) {
        perror("mkdir()");
        return -1;
    }
    if (mkdir("/opt/example.com/helloworld", 0755)) {
        perror("mkdir()");
        return -1;
    }
    if (mkdir("/opt/example.com/helloworld/bin", 0755)) {
        perror("mkdir()");
        return -1;
    }

    f = fopen("/opt/example.com/helloworld/bin/helloworld", "w");
    if (!f) {
        perror("fopen()");
        return -1;        
    }
    if (fputs(HELLOWORLD_SCRIPT, f) == EOF) {
        perror("fputs()");
        return -1;
    }
    fclose(f);

    if (chmod("/opt/example.com/helloworld/bin/helloworld", 0755)) {
        perror("chmod()");
        return -1;
    }

    return 0;
}

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
    psys_pkg_t pkg;
    psys_err_t err = NULL;

    pkg = psys_pkg_new(
        "example.com", "helloworld", "0.1", "3.0", "noarch");

    if (!pkg) {
        fprintf(stderr, "%s\\n", strerror(ENOMEM));
        return EXIT_FAILURE;
    }

    psys_pkg_add_summary(pkg, "C", "A simple Hello World program");
    psys_pkg_add_description(pkg, "C",
         "This is a simple program which prints "
         "\\"Hello World\\" onto the screen. It is an "
         "example of a  program installed using the "
         "psys library.");

    if (psys_announce(pkg, &err)) {
        fprintf(stderr, "psys_announce(): %s\\n", psys_err_msg(err));
        psys_err_free(err);
        psys_pkg_free(pkg);
        return EXIT_FAILURE;
    }

    if (install())
        return EXIT_FAILURE;

    if (psys_register(pkg, &err)) {
        fprintf(stderr, "psys_register(): %s\\n", psys_err_msg(err));
        psys_err_free(err);
        psys_pkg_free(pkg);
        return EXIT_FAILURE;
    }

    psys_pkg_free(pkg);
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7),
.BR psys_register_update (3),
.BR psys_unregister (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://gitorious.org/libpsys/ for more information
about the project and for reporting bugs.
