.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_PKG_VERSION 3 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_pkg_version - Get a package object's Version field value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "const char *psys_pkg_version(psys_pkg_t " pkg );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_pkg_version ()
returns the value stored in the Version metadata field of package object
.IR pkg .
For a description of the Version field, see
.BR psysmeta (7).
.PP
.I pkg
must not be NULL. Otherwise,
.BR psys_pkg_version ()
will abort the calling program.
.SH RETURN VALUE
See
.BR DESCRIPTION .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7),
.BR psysmeta (7),
.BR psys_pkg_new (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://page/ for more information about the
project and for reporting bugs.
