.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_PKG_NEW 3 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_pkg_new, psys_pkg_free - Create and destroy
.BR psys (3)
package objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "psys_pkg_t psys_pkg_new(const char *" vendor ,
.br
.BI "                        const char *" name ,
.br
.BI "                        const char *" version ,
.br
.BI "                        const char *" lsbversion ,
.br
.BI "                        const char *" arch );
.sp
.BI "void psys_pkg_free(psys_pkg_t " pkg );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_pkg_new ()
allocates a
.BR psys (7)
package object and initializes its metadata fields as follows:
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.I vendor
is stored in the package object's Vendor field.
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.I name
is stored in the package object's Name field.
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.I version
is stored in the package object's Version field.
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.I lsbversion
is stored in the package object's LSB Version field.
.IP \(bu 4
The value of
.I arch
is stored in the package object's Architecture field.
.IP \(bu 4
All other metadata fields of the package object are set to NULL.
.PP
For a description of the mentioned metadata fields, see
.BR psysmeta (7).
.PP
After initialization,
.BR psys_pkg_new()
returns a pointer to the created package object to the caller.
If the memory required for the object could not be allocated,
NULL is returned instead.
.PP
The arguments passed to
.BR psys_pkg_new ()
must not be NULL, and must fulfill the requirements specified for the
respective metadata fields in
.BR psysmeta (7).
Otherwise,
.BR psys_pkg_new ()
will abort the calling program.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_free ()
frees all memory allocated for package object
.IR pkg
(which must not be used afterwards).
If
.I pkg
is NULL, no action is taken.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If allocation was successful,
.BR psys_pkg_new ()
returns a pointer to the created package object.
Otherwise, it returns NULL.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_free ()
returns no value.
.SH NOTES
The strings passed to
.BR psys_pkg_new ()
are copied internally.
Thus, they can be subsequently changed or freed without affecting the
created package object.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7),
.BR psysmeta (7),
.BR psys_pkg_vendor (3),
.BR psys_pkg_name (3),
.BR psys_pkg_version (3),
.BR psys_pkg_lsbversion (3),
.BR psys_pkg_arch (3),
.BR psys_pkg_summary (3),
.BR psys_pkg_description (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://gitorious.org/libpsys/ for more information
about the project and for reporting bugs.
