.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_TLIST 3 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_tlist_locale, psys_tlist_value, psys_tlist_next - Traverse
.BR psys (7)
translation lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "const char *psys_tlist_locale(psys_tlist_t " elem );
.br
.BI "const char *psys_tlist_value(psys_tlist_t " elem );
.br
.BI "psys_tlist_t psys_tlist_next(psys_tlist_t " elem );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For a conceptual overview of translation lists, see
.BR psys (7).
.PP
.BR psys_tlist_locale ()
returns the
.BR locale (7)
for which the translation list element
.I elem
provides a value.
The locale is not guaranteed to exist on the system.
.PP
.BR psys_tlist_value ()
returns the value associated with the locale by
.IR elem .
.PP
.BR psys_tlist_next ()
returns the element immediately following
.I elem
in the translation list it belongs to.
If
.I elem
is the last element of the list,
.BR psys_tlist_next ()
returns NULL.
.PP
In all cases,
.I elem
must not be NULL.
Otherwise, the calling program will be aborted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
See
.BR DESCRIPTION .
.SH EXAMPLE
The following program creates a package object, adds values for different
locales to the object's Summary field, and outputs each translation
to standard output.
.nf

static void print_summary(psys_pkg_t pkg)
{
    psys_tlist_t summary, l;

    summary = psys_pkg_summary(pkg);

    for (l = summary; l; l = psys_tlist_next(l)) {
        printf("Summary (%s): %s\\n",
               psys_tlist_locale(l),
               psys_tlist_value(l));
    }
}

int main(int argc, const char **argv)
{
    psys_pkg_t pkg;

    pkg = psys_pkg_new(
        "example.com", "helloworld", "0.1", "4.0", "noarch");
    if (!pkg)
        return EXIT_FAILURE;

    psys_pkg_add_summary (
        pkg, "C", "A program printing `Hello World!'");
    psys_pkg_add_summary (
        pkg, "de", "Ein Programm, das \\"Hello World\\" ausgibt");

    print_summary(pkg);
    return 0;
}
.fi
.PP
When run, the order in which the program outputs the translations will
be directly opposite to the order they were added.
This, however, is just a side effect of the current implementation; how a
translation list is ordered is undefined.
(Currently, translation lists are implemented as singly-linked lists,
which makes prepending the most efficient method to add new elements.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://gitorious.org/libpsys/ for more information
about the project and for reporting bugs.
