.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_REGISTER 7 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_unannounce, psys_unregister - Remove a package from the system
package database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "int psys_unannounce(const char *" vendor ", const char *" name ,
.br
.BI "                    psys_err_t *" err );
.br
.BI "int psys_unregister(const char *" vendor ", const char *" name ,
.br
.BI "                    psys_err_t *" err );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_unregister ()
reports to the system package manager that the calling program attempts
to uninstall the package with the specified
.I vendor
and
.I name
(see
.BR psysmeta (7)).
If the package manager objects to the attempt, or if
.BR psys_unregister ()
encounters an error during execution, -1 is returned, and
.I *err
is set to an error object with more information about the abnormal return.
Otherwise,
.BR psys_unregister ()
returns 0.
.PP
If
.BR psys_unregister ()
returns abnormally, the calling program shall not attempt the
uninstallation of the announced package.
On normal return, the files installed by the "unannounced" package may be
removed. The package's data directory (see
.BR psysmeta(7))
should be deleted completely.
.PP
.BR psys_unregister ()
requests the removal of the package with the specified
.I vendor
and
.I name
from the system package database.
On error,
.BR psys_unregister ()
returns -1 and sets
.I *err
like
.BR psys_unannounce ().
If the package has been successfully removed from the database, 0 is
returned.
.PP
.I vendor
and
.I name
must not be NULL when calling
.BR psys_unannounce ()
or
.BR psys_unregister ().
Otherwise, the program will be aborted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 is returned if
.BR psys_unannounce ()
or
.BR psys_unregister ()
returns normally.
On abnormal return (when an error is reported), -1 is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EACCESS
The calling process is not permitted to access the package management
system.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_EINTERNAL
An internal error occurred.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ENOENT
The specified package is not installed.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ENOMEM
An out-of-memory error occurred.
.TP 4
.B PSYS_ENOTIMPL
The system does not implement the function.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following program uninstalls the simple "Hello World" program
installed by the
.BR psys_register (3)
example program and removes it from the system package database.
.nf

#include <errno.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>

#include <psys.h>

static int uninstall(void)
{
    if (system("rm -rf /opt/example.com/helloworld")) {
        perror("system()");
        return -1;
    }
    return 0;
}

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
    psys_err_t err = NULL;

    if (psys_unannounce("example.com", "helloworld", &err)) {
        fprintf(stderr, "psys_unannounce(): %s\\n", psys_err_msg(err));
        psys_err_free(err);
        return EXIT_FAILURE;
    }

    if (uninstall())
        return EXIT_FAILURE;

    if (psys_unregister("example.com", "helloworld", &err)) {
        fprintf(stderr, "psys_unregister(): %s\\n", psys_err_msg(err));
        psys_err_free(err);
        return EXIT_FAILURE;
    }

    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7)
.BR psys_register (3),
.BR psys_register_update (3)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://gitorious.org/libpsys/ for more information
about the project and for reporting bugs.
