.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_PKG_EXTRAS 3 2010-06-15 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_pkg_extras, psys_pkg_add_extra - Get and add to a package object's
Extra Files value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "psys_plist_t psys_pkg_extras(psys_pkg_t " pkg );
.br
.BI "void psys_pkg_add_extra(psys_pkg_t " pkg ", const char *" path );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_pkg_extras ()
returns a list (traversable via the functions described in
.BR psys_plist (3))
containing the paths stored in the Extra Files metadata field of package
object
.IR pkg .
(For a description of the Extra Files field, see
.BR psysmeta (7).)
If no path has been previously add to the Extra Files field value of
.IR pkg ,
.BR psys_pkg_extras ()
returns NULL.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_add_extra ()
adds the value of
.I path
to the list of paths stored in the Extra Files field of
.IR pkg .
.I path
must be absolute and canonical (free of empty,
.I .
and
.I ..
path components); otherwise,
.BR psys_pkg_add_extra ()
will abort the calling program.
.PP
All arguments to
.BR psys_pkg_extras ()
and
.BR psys_pkg_add_extra ()
must not be NULL.
Otherwise, the calling program will be aborted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR psys_pkg_extras ()
returns the Extra Files field values of
.I pkg
as a path list.
If no path has been added to the Extra Files field of
.IR pkg ,
.BR psys_pkg_extras ()
returns NULL.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_add_extra ()
returns 0 if
.I path
has been successfully added to the Extra Files field. If not enough
memory is available to store the value, -1 is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7),
.BR psysmeta (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://gitorious.org/libpsys/ for more information
about the project and for reporting bugs.
