.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Denis Washington <dwashington@gmx.net>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH PSYS_PKG_DESCRIPTION 3 2010-06-08 libpsys "Psys Library Manual"
.SH NAME
psys_pkg_description, psys_pkg_add_description - Get and add to a package object's
Description field value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <psys.h>
.sp
.BI "psys_tlist_t psys_pkg_description(psys_pkg_t " pkg );
.br
.BI "void psys_pkg_add_description(psys_pkg_t " pkg ",
.br
.BI "                              const char *" locale ,
.br
.BI "                              const char *" description );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR psys_pkg_description ()
returns a translation list (see
.BR psys (7))
containing the values stored in the Description metadata field of package
object
.IR pkg .
(For a description of the Description field, see
.BR psysmeta (7).)
If no Description field value has been previously added to
.IR pkg ,
.BR psys_pkg_description ()
returns NULL.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_add_description ()
adds the value of
.I description
as translation for
.I locale
to the Description field of
.IR pkg .
If
.I locale
is "C" or "POSIX",
.IR description
specifies the Description field value to be used if no translation is
defined for a given locale.
.PP
All arguments to
.BR psys_pkg_description ()
and
.BR psys_pkg_add_description ()
must not be NULL.
Otherwise, the calling program will be aborted.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR psys_pkg_description ()
returns the Description field values of
.I pkg
as a translation list.
If no Description field value has been added to
.IR pkg ,
.BR psys_pkg_description ()
returns NULL.
.PP
.BR psys_pkg_add_description ()
returns no value.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psys (7),
.BR psysmeta (7)
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the documentation created by the Psys Libray Project.
See the project page at http://page/ for more information about the
project and for reporting bugs.
